 # 🧑🏼‍💻 Notes on the Importance of Semantics

* Semantics are of high importance in terms of accesibility, may that be for the browser and SEO or for a web dev team that has to review code and be able to navigate easily.
* A clear structure is key for SEO. Search engines rely on automated programs to scan your page, understand its content, and decide how and when it should appear in search results.
* ⚠️ If your HTML structure is invalid, the browser has to guess what you meant — and its guess may not match what you intended.
 

# 💡 Commands

* The difference between `<div>`, `<section>`:
     * `<div>`might be used for styling while `<section>` holds meaning (assistive technology may use sections to help the user navigate the page)
* The `<article>`element also exists and is slightly different from `<section>`. In an article, the content makes sense on its own

* Some commands like `<font>`, `<center>`, `<big>`or `<small>`are considered deprecated: they're considered obsolete today.
  Thy're part of what is considered presentational HTML.

* Today, semantic HTML is the recommended pratice. This includes commands such as:
     * `<header>`, `<nav>`(for sections with navigation links,`<section>`or `<figure>`.
     * ``` html
        <header>
          <nav>
           <a href="#">Home</a>
           <a href="#">About</a>
           <a href="#">Contact</a>
          </nav>
        </header>```
  
* Difference purposes between `<i>`(for techical terms, foreign words...) and `<em>` (so readers will stress that word)
* `<strong>`versus `<b>`("bring attention to" element, usually displayed in boldface)
   * `<b>`used to draw attention without conveying specific importance
   * `<strong>` used to show importance (e.g a warning for a product)

* Description lists:
``` html
<dl>
  <dt>HTML</dt>
  <dd>HyperText Markup Language</dd>
  <dt>CSS</dt>
  <dd>Cascading Style Sheets</dd>
</dl>```
```
* Quotes:
   * block quotation for section quoted from another web page:
   * ``` html
      <blockquote cite="https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/learn-to-code-book/">
      " Can you imagine what it would be like to be a successful developer? To have built software systems that people rely upon?"
     </blockquote>```
   * For inline (shorter) quotes:
      ```
       <p>
            As Quincy Larson said,
           <q cite="https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/learn-to-code-book/">
             Momentum is everything.
            </q>
           </p>```

* Abbreviations `<abbr>`:

      <p><abbr title="HyperText Markup Language">HTML</abbr> is the foundation       of the web.</p>'''
